# Conntrack Migrator

## Introduction

This repository hosts the code for the conntrack-migrator process.

As of today, QEMU does not migrate any connection tracking entries for the VM.
With the introduction of dbus-vmstate backend in QEMU, it enables any external
helper process to sync data with respect to the VM across hypervisor during VM
migration.
The conntrack migrator process thus acts as a helper process to QEMU to migrate
VM connection tracking entries.

### Responsibilities:
- On the source host, conntrack-migrator process reads the conntrack entries for
  the VM’s IP address and transfer them to QEMU via D-Bus. Also, post migration
  cleanup of these migrated conntrack entries is performed.
- On the destination host, read the data from QEMU via D-Bus and program
  the entries in the kernel conntrack table.

### Directory tree
```
.
+-- .
|   +-- include
|   +-- src
|   +-- tests
|   +-- build (auto-generated by make)
|   +-- gen (auto-generated by make)
```

## Build

### Build Requirements:
Following libraries are required and can be easily installed using yum.
 - libnetfilter_conntrack, libnetfilter_conntrack-devel
 - libmnl, libmnl-devel
 - glib2, glib2-devel
 - gcc, make, gdbus-codegen

### Compile
To compile the conntrack-migrator source:
```shell-session
foo@bar:~$ make all
```
This will create the conntrack-migrator binary in the build folder.

## Running on host.
On the source hypervisor (SAVE MODE):
```shell-session
foo@bar:~$ DBUS_SYSTEM_BUS_ADDRESS=<dbus address> conntrack_migrator 2 <helper-id> <num of ip address> <space separated list of ip addresses>
foo@bar:~$ DBUS_SYSTEM_BUS_ADDRESS=unix:path=/run/system_dbus_socket conntrack_migrator 2 id1 2 1.1.1.1 2.2.2.2
```

On the destination hypervisor (LOAD MODE):
```shell-session
foo@bar:~$ DBUS_SYSTEM_BUS_ADDRESS=<dbus address> conntrack_migrator 1 <helper-id>
foo@bar:~$ DBUS_SYSTEM_BUS_ADDRESS=unix:path=/run/system_dbus_socket conntrack_migrator 2 id1
```

## Testing
### Requirements
Check unit testing framework(https://libcheck.github.io/check/) is used for
running the unit test.

Before starting the UTs, make sure check is installed using:

```shell-session
foo@bar:~$ yum install check
```
### Running all unit tests
```shell-session
foo@bar:~$ make check
```

### Running individual unit test
```shell-session
foo@bar:~$ make clean_secondary # cleans up the stale tests (optional)
foo@bar:~$ make build/tests/runner/<test-name>.out
```
For eg:
```shell-session
foo@bar:~$ make build/tests/runner/test_common.out
```

### Unsupported features
Following features are not yet supported:
 - Conntrack entries having IPv6 information will not be migrated.
 - Conntrack entries having zone information will not be migrated
   since there is not guarntee that on the destination the same zone
   will be allocated for the VM.

## LICENSE
Copyright 2021, Nutanix, Inc.

Conntrack-Migrator v.1.0 is dual licensed under the BSD 3 Clause License or
the GNU General Public License version 2.

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for detailed terms and conditions.
